samples/IMMUNI/ReproducibleBuilds/README.md, before:

# Reproducible Build tests for Immuni
build 2.3.0 #2323941 -> _2 classes import mismatch_ \
. . . \
**build 1.1.0 #1101922 -> OK** \
build 1.0.2 #1021606 -> _2 classes import mismatch_ \
build 1.0.1 #1011346 -> _2 classes import mismatch_


Some instructions are officially provided by **Bending Spoons** on Immuni Documentation Repo - [HERE](https://github.com/immuni-app/immuni-documentation/blob/master/Technology.md#android).

## Preliminary Measures

- **1.** Manual declaration of BUILD_NUMBER in <project>/build.gradle in order to avoid any build-version mismatch

Play Store Release | Tag (Github) | <build_number>
-------------------|--------------|---------------
2.3.0 | Immuni-2.3.0build2323941 | 23941
. . . | . . .                    | . . .
1.1.0 | Immuni-1.1.0build1101922 | 1922
1.0.2 | Immuni-1.0.2build1021606 | 1606
1.0.1 | Immuni-1.0.1build1011346 | 1346

```
        computeVersionCode = { ->
            return (versionMajor * 1000000) + (versionMinor * 100000) + (versionPatch * 10000) + <build_number>
                    // Integer.valueOf(System.env.BUILD_NUMBER ?: 0)
        }
```

- **2.** Arrange package signature situation. There are 2 ways to do so.

(2A) Suggested : Generate your own certificate & arrange keystore/key params into <project>/template.properties

```
storeFile=<your_location/keystore.jks>
keyPassword=<your_key_password>
keyAlias=<your_key_alias>
storePassword=<your_keystore_password>
```

(2B) Comment certificate signing for release build variant in <project>/app/build.gradle

```
//    signingConfigs {
//        release {
//            keyAlias appProperties['keyAlias']
//            keyPassword appProperties['keyPassword']
//            storeFile file(appProperties['storeFile'])
//            storePassword appProperties['storePassword']
//        }
//    }
    defaultConfig {
        applicationId "it.ministerodellasalute.immuni"
        minSdkVersion rootProject.minSdkVersion
        targetSdkVersion rootProject.targetSdkVersion
        versionCode rootProject.versionCode
        versionName rootProject.versionName

        setProperty("archivesBaseName", "Immuni" + "-" + versionName + "build" + versionCode)

        testInstrumentationRunner "androidx.test.runner.AndroidJUnitRunner"
        vectorDrawables.useSupportLibrary = true
    }

    buildTypes {
        release {
            minifyEnabled false
            proguardFiles getDefaultProguardFile('proguard-android-optimize.txt'), 'proguard-rules.pro'
//            signingConfig signingConfigs.release
```
		
- **3.** Arrange environment settings & avoid to upgrade gradle plugin if/when suggested (keeping project default ones). These are the environment settings, that have been tested with **Android Studio 4.0** (Linux / Windows) and **Docker** (see attached Dockerfile) : 

Name | Version
-----|--------
Android Gradle Plugin | 3.6.3
Gradle | 5.6.4
JDK | 1.8
SDK | 29 (+23 not compulsory)
SDK Build-Tools | 29.0.3
NDK side-by-side | 20.0.5594570


---------------------------------------------

## Procedure

- Gradle sync & build signed aab bundle (2A) or unsigned aab bundle (2B) for Release variant

You can use Android Studio 4.0 or arrange your build-environment ( _release source download + signature arrangements + ./gradlew clean + ./gradlew bundleRelease_ ) on a Docker image using provided dockerfile .

- Connect your device through USB debug and use [Bundletool](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/bundletool) to create the JSON file

```
java -jar bundletool-all-0.15.0.jar get-device-spec --output=<json_filename>.json
```

- Extract specific APKs for your device from aab.

Build 2.3.0 #2323941

```
java -jar bundletool-all-0.15.0.jar build-apks --device-spec=<json_filename>.json --bundle=Immuni-2.3.0build2323941-release.aab --output=Immuni_2323941.apks --ks=<your_location/keystore.jks> --ks-pass=pass:<your_keystore_password> --ks-key-alias=<your_key_alias> --key-pass=pass:<your_key_password>
```
. . . \
Build 1.1.0 #1101922

```
java -jar bundletool-all-0.15.0.jar build-apks --device-spec=<json_filename>.json --bundle=Immuni-1.1.0build1101922-release.aab --output=Immuni_1101922.apks --ks=<your_location/keystore.jks> --ks-pass=pass:<your_keystore_password> --ks-key-alias=<your_key_alias> --key-pass=pass:<your_key_password>
```

Build 1.0.2 #1021606

```
java -jar bundletool-all-0.15.0.jar build-apks --device-spec=<json_filename>.json --bundle=Immuni-1.0.2build1021606-release.aab --output=Immuni_1021606.apks --ks=<your_location/keystore.jks> --ks-pass=pass:<your_keystore_password> --ks-key-alias=<your_key_alias> --key-pass=pass:<your_key_password>
```

Build 1.0.1 #1011346

```
java -jar bundletool-all-0.15.0.jar build-apks --device-spec=<json_filename>.json --bundle=Immuni-1.0.1build1011346-release.aab --output=Immuni_1011346.apks --ks=<your_location/keystore.jks> --ks-pass=pass:<your_keystore_password> --ks-key-alias=<your_key_alias> --key-pass=pass:<your_key_password>
```

- Locate APKs on your device & extract them through ADB pull, Amaze, etc.

```
adb shell pm path it.ministerodellasalute.immuni
```

--------------------------------------

## Comparison

You can use Android Studio APK Analyzer, Python script apkdiff, APK extraction & smali comparison, etc. .

**Everything OK with build 1.1.0** - read classes mismatch notice for builds 1.0.1 & 1.0.2 .

![](photo_110_comparison.png)

Keep in mind that these files won't ever match :

- AndroidManifest.xml ( _changes performed by Google Play during app publishing_ )

![](photo_androidmanifest_xml.png)

- META-INF/BNDLTOOL.RSA ( _different sign certificate_ )

- META-INF/BNDLTOOL.SF ( _different SHA-256-Digest for AndroidManifest.xml_ )

![](photo_bdnltool_sf.png)

- META-INF/MANIFEST.MF ( _different SHA-256-Digest for AndroidManifest.xml_ )

![](photo_manifest_mf.png)

--------------------------------------

## Classes.dex mismatch situation of releases 1.0.1 & 1.0.2 & . . . & 2.3.0

Owing to import mapping issues there is a mismatch between Classes.dex files of such releases = Play Store versions of 1.0.1 & 1.0.2 have 636 Bytes more than compiled ones.

For such releases there is indeed the import of _it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HowitworksDirections instead of it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HomeDirections_ in generated FaqActivityDirections.java and HowitworksDialogFragmentDirections.java, that leads to missing method calls.

Wrong import

```
import it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HowitworksDirections;
```

Right import

```
import it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HomeDirections;
import it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HomeDirections.ActionHowitworks;
import it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HomeDirections.ActionOnboardingActivity;
import it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HomeDirections.ActionWebview;
```

![](photo_smalichk.png) 

![](photo_actionwebview.png)

It's a source issue between annotations management and environment settings&plugins alignment. Clean+Rebuild, Gradle/Environment Cache resets, starting from scratch on other systems, etc. don't fix it. 

Such situation had been fixed by **Bending Spoons** on build 1.1.0 = OK Reproducible Builds for such release. However, it has been found again with next releases, including latest 2.3.0 .

Commit message:

Added note about the SafetyNET API keys

samples/IMMUNI/ReproducibleBuilds/README.md, after:

# Reproducible Build tests for Immuni
build 2.3.0 #2323941 -> _2 classes import mismatch_ \
. . . \
**build 1.1.0 #1101922 -> OK** \
build 1.0.2 #1021606 -> _2 classes import mismatch_ \
build 1.0.1 #1011346 -> _2 classes import mismatch_


Some instructions are officially provided by **Bending Spoons** on Immuni Documentation Repo - [HERE](https://github.com/immuni-app/immuni-documentation/blob/master/Technology.md#android).

## Preliminary Measures

- **1.** Manual declaration of BUILD_NUMBER in <project>/build.gradle in order to avoid any build-version mismatch

Play Store Release | Tag (Github) | <build_number>
-------------------|--------------|---------------
2.3.0 | Immuni-2.3.0build2323941 | 23941
. . . | . . .                    | . . .
1.1.0 | Immuni-1.1.0build1101922 | 1922
1.0.2 | Immuni-1.0.2build1021606 | 1606
1.0.1 | Immuni-1.0.1build1011346 | 1346

```
        computeVersionCode = { ->
            return (versionMajor * 1000000) + (versionMinor * 100000) + (versionPatch * 10000) + <build_number>
                    // Integer.valueOf(System.env.BUILD_NUMBER ?: 0)
        }
```

- **2.** Arrange package signature situation. There are 2 ways to do so.

(2A) Suggested : Generate your own certificate & arrange keystore/key params into <project>/template.properties

```
storeFile=<your_location/keystore.jks>
keyPassword=<your_key_password>
keyAlias=<your_key_alias>
storePassword=<your_keystore_password>
```

(2B) Comment certificate signing for release build variant in <project>/app/build.gradle

```
//    signingConfigs {
//        release {
//            keyAlias appProperties['keyAlias']
//            keyPassword appProperties['keyPassword']
//            storeFile file(appProperties['storeFile'])
//            storePassword appProperties['storePassword']
//        }
//    }
    defaultConfig {
        applicationId "it.ministerodellasalute.immuni"
        minSdkVersion rootProject.minSdkVersion
        targetSdkVersion rootProject.targetSdkVersion
        versionCode rootProject.versionCode
        versionName rootProject.versionName

        setProperty("archivesBaseName", "Immuni" + "-" + versionName + "build" + versionCode)

        testInstrumentationRunner "androidx.test.runner.AndroidJUnitRunner"
        vectorDrawables.useSupportLibrary = true
    }

    buildTypes {
        release {
            minifyEnabled false
            proguardFiles getDefaultProguardFile('proguard-android-optimize.txt'), 'proguard-rules.pro'
//            signingConfig signingConfigs.release
```
		
- **3.** Arrange environment settings & avoid to upgrade gradle plugin if/when suggested (keeping project default ones). These are the environment settings, that have been tested with **Android Studio 4.0** (Linux / Windows) and **Docker** (see attached Dockerfile) : 

Name | Version
-----|--------
Android Gradle Plugin | 3.6.3
Gradle | 5.6.4
JDK | 1.8
SDK | 29 (+23 not compulsory)
SDK Build-Tools | 29.0.3
NDK side-by-side | 20.0.5594570

- **4.** Since build 1.3.0 - #1305330 : Align the value of the SafetyNET API keys to the value of the official packages - see declaration in the template.properties file. For obvious reasons, these API keys aren't exposed on Github. However, owing to the lack of obfuscation, such value can be easily retrieved through decompilation of the official packages. 

---------------------------------------------

## Procedure

- Gradle sync & build signed aab bundle (2A) or unsigned aab bundle (2B) for Release variant

You can use Android Studio 4.0 or arrange your build-environment ( _release source download + signature arrangements + ./gradlew clean + ./gradlew bundleRelease_ ) on a Docker image using provided dockerfile .

- Connect your device through USB debug and use [Bundletool](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/bundletool) to create the JSON file

```
java -jar bundletool-all-0.15.0.jar get-device-spec --output=<json_filename>.json
```

- Extract specific APKs for your device from aab.

Build 2.3.0 #2323941

```
java -jar bundletool-all-0.15.0.jar build-apks --device-spec=<json_filename>.json --bundle=Immuni-2.3.0build2323941-release.aab --output=Immuni_2323941.apks --ks=<your_location/keystore.jks> --ks-pass=pass:<your_keystore_password> --ks-key-alias=<your_key_alias> --key-pass=pass:<your_key_password>
```
. . . \
Build 1.1.0 #1101922

```
java -jar bundletool-all-0.15.0.jar build-apks --device-spec=<json_filename>.json --bundle=Immuni-1.1.0build1101922-release.aab --output=Immuni_1101922.apks --ks=<your_location/keystore.jks> --ks-pass=pass:<your_keystore_password> --ks-key-alias=<your_key_alias> --key-pass=pass:<your_key_password>
```

Build 1.0.2 #1021606

```
java -jar bundletool-all-0.15.0.jar build-apks --device-spec=<json_filename>.json --bundle=Immuni-1.0.2build1021606-release.aab --output=Immuni_1021606.apks --ks=<your_location/keystore.jks> --ks-pass=pass:<your_keystore_password> --ks-key-alias=<your_key_alias> --key-pass=pass:<your_key_password>
```

Build 1.0.1 #1011346

```
java -jar bundletool-all-0.15.0.jar build-apks --device-spec=<json_filename>.json --bundle=Immuni-1.0.1build1011346-release.aab --output=Immuni_1011346.apks --ks=<your_location/keystore.jks> --ks-pass=pass:<your_keystore_password> --ks-key-alias=<your_key_alias> --key-pass=pass:<your_key_password>
```

- Locate APKs on your device & extract them through ADB pull, Amaze, etc.

```
adb shell pm path it.ministerodellasalute.immuni
```

--------------------------------------

## Comparison

You can use Android Studio APK Analyzer, Python script apkdiff, APK extraction & smali comparison, etc. .

**Everything OK with build 1.1.0** - read classes mismatch notice for builds 1.0.1 & 1.0.2 .

![](photo_110_comparison.png)

Keep in mind that these files won't ever match :

- AndroidManifest.xml ( _changes performed by Google Play during app publishing_ )

![](photo_androidmanifest_xml.png)

- META-INF/BNDLTOOL.RSA ( _different sign certificate_ )

- META-INF/BNDLTOOL.SF ( _different SHA-256-Digest for AndroidManifest.xml_ )

![](photo_bdnltool_sf.png)

- META-INF/MANIFEST.MF ( _different SHA-256-Digest for AndroidManifest.xml_ )

![](photo_manifest_mf.png)

--------------------------------------

## Classes.dex mismatch situation of releases 1.0.1 & 1.0.2 & . . . & 2.3.0

Owing to import mapping issues there is a mismatch between Classes.dex files of such releases = Play Store versions of 1.0.1 & 1.0.2 have 636 Bytes more than compiled ones.

For such releases there is indeed the import of _it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HowitworksDirections instead of it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HomeDirections_ in generated FaqActivityDirections.java and HowitworksDialogFragmentDirections.java, that leads to missing method calls.

Wrong import

```
import it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HowitworksDirections;
```

Right import

```
import it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HomeDirections;
import it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HomeDirections.ActionHowitworks;
import it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HomeDirections.ActionOnboardingActivity;
import it.ministerodellasalute.immuni.HomeDirections.ActionWebview;
```

![](photo_smalichk.png) 

![](photo_actionwebview.png)

It's a source issue between annotations management and environment settings&plugins alignment. Clean+Rebuild, Gradle/Environment Cache resets, starting from scratch on other systems, etc. don't fix it. 

Such situation had been fixed by **Bending Spoons** on build 1.1.0 = OK Reproducible Builds for such release. However, it has been found again with next releases, including latest 2.3.0 .
